feat(blog-post): with title 'What to do if you don't feel heard at work' (#1783)
simplabs/simplabs.github.io: _posts/2022-04-22-what-to-do-if-you-dont-feel-heard-at-work.md

topic: company-culture
bio: 'Software Engineer'
og:
  image: /assets/images/posts/2022-03-17-dynamic-components-embroider/og-image.png
description:
  Oscar Dominguez writes to himself of the past. He tries to open his eyes and
  show him a better world is possible. There are companies where employees are
  listened to and their opinions are taken into consideration.
---

86%

That is the number of people who don't feel heard **fairly or equally** at their
organisation.

And nearly half (47%) claim that underrepresented voices remain undervalued by
their employers, according to [global research] conducted by [The Workforce
Institute] at [UKG] in 2021.

Many engineers feel they don't have room to share their ideas and opinions.
**Are you one of them**?

**How often do you feel your perspective is taken into account**? **And is this
as often as you’d like**?

[global research]:
  https://www.forbes.com/sites/carolinecenizalevine/2021/06/23/new-survey-shows-the-business-benefit-of-feeling-heard--5-ways-to-build-inclusive-teams/?sh=1ccf117d5f0c
[the workforce institute]: https://www.workforceinstitute.org/
[ukg]: https://www.ukg.com/

<!--break-->

How **connected** do you feel to:

> - **The Product** and its mission?

Author: ```suggestion
- **The Product** and its mission
```

> - **The Team**
> - **The Company Values**

Author: ```suggestion
- **The Team?**
- **The Company Values?**
```

across 11 countries from
[The Workforce Institute](https://www.workforceinstitute.org/) at
[UKG](https://www.ukg.com/), The vast majority (86%) of employees feel people at
their organisation are not heard fairly or equally — and nearly half (47%) say
that underrepresented voices remain undervalued by employers.

It happened to me in the past and, lucky you, there is a solution for it 😀 🥳

## The art of listening

As professionals, we **want to feel we are being heard.** When that does not
happen, a feeling of **disconnection** starts growing in our inside.

This happened to me in the past and the following questions came to my mind by
then:

- Is this feeling **normal**?
- Am I being **selfish**? I should be focusing on the company’s mission instead,
  right? They are paying me for that.
- Is there something I can do on my end? The others are the ones not listening
  to me, there’s nothing I can do.

Let’s answer question by question:

> Is this feeling normal?

Yes, it is a very natural feeling. And there is nothing wrong with it.

As professionals we want:

- to feel valued
- to contribute
- to help others
- to grow

> The moment this does not happen, it turns into frustration and, this frustration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this does not happen we feel frustrated and this frustration
```

> **ends up impacting the relationship** with our **team**, our **project** we are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**ends up impacting the relationship** with our **team**, the **project** in which we are
```

> participating or even our relationship with our **company**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
participating, or even our relationship with our **company**.
```

> Am I being selfish? I should be focusing on the company’s mission instead,
> right? They are paying me for that.

No, you are not being selfish. Your company needs you to be happy and enjoy your
job.

When this happens, you show all your potential as a professional. Your team, the

> product and your company get benefit from it. Your company is paying you for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
product and your company benefit from it. Your company is paying you for
```

that, for your maximum potential. It’s a win-win!

If this is not happening, there is something wrong that needs to be fixed:

1. **Are you aligned with your company and team values?**
2. Is your vision of your **career path aligned with** the idea **your company**
   has in mind?

If the answer is yes, keep reading because there’s probably something you can do
about it.

If the answer is no, this probably means you need a change.

> > Is there something I can do on my end? It’s the problem of others not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Is there something I can do on my end? The problem is others not
```

> listening to me, there’s nothing I can control.

Yes, you can. You can’t control what others do unless you have very good
hypnosis skills but you can decide to perceive this as a problem or not. What if
you try to take the initiative? Let’s show the rest how _The Art of Listening_
is and spread it to the world.

## Take initiative with empathy

I’m pretty sure you have already tried to give your opinion to improve a
feature, a process, a team ceremony... but nothing happened. No feedback, or
automatically rejected.

> I know, it’s very frustrating and you got tired of it. Maybe you stopped trying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I know, it’s very frustrating and you got tired of it. Maybe you stopped trying.
```

> it. The key question here is: Do you know why? Why did you not get feedback or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key question here is: Do you know why? Why did you not get feedback or
```

why did it get rejected?

### Identify the problem/s

Let’s assume the best of the intentions from your teammates, the stakeholders,

> the company or whoever should be the one listening to you. Why would he or she

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the company or whoever should be the one listening to you. Why would they
```

ignore you? Or automatically reject you?

The list of possibilities is long:

- There is no time to attend my petition or suggestion
- It is not a priority for them
- There is not a clear process for me to share my thoughts
- I’m not involved when decisions are discussed and taken and when I discover
  them it’s late.
- etc.

> The list is long, I know. And also, it varies depending on the week, a moment of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list is long and it varies depending on the week, a moment of
```

the day or a topic.

The very first step is to **identify the problem/s that are making your message

> not be heard by the rest.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
go unheard by the rest.**
```

Once that is clear, we can come up with solutions.

### Choose your battles

Changes require time and energy between all parts.

Especially at the beginning, if the list is long, choose the topics which are:

- more important for you
- more significant for your team
- more significant for your company

Don’t worry, there will be time for the rest. Or maybe they were not that
important in the end 🙂

### Propose solutions with empathy

I’m sure you already tried to use the processes in place to communicate your
opinion, but this is not working so we need to come up with solutions.

To be effective, these solutions need to be empathetic with all parts. If they
look good to you but they are not taking into consideration other parts involved
in the conversation, it means they won’t get traction.

Is the process in place being empathetic with all parts? No? Let’s change it!
Maybe it needs to change the channel, to use a meeting instead of being

> asynchronous to make it happen. Or the other way around, to make asynchronous

Reviewer: ```suggestion
asynchronous to make it happen. Or the other way around, to be asynchronous
```

because there is no time for meetings. Think about the proposal you want to talk
about, think about the receptors and what could work for them.

### Lead by example

You want to feel listened but, are you a good listener? If you make your
colleagues feel heard maybe they replicate it. Don’t you think? 😜

Check these tips:

- **Pay attention**. Make sure the other feels heard, not only listened to.
- Show that you are **engaged with what’s been told**. Use your body language
  and gestures to give feedback to the other.
- Ask with **curiosity, not judgement**
- **Don’t interrupt**

## Conclusion

Not feeling heard at your company
[is a global problem lots of employees suffer worldwide](https://www.forbes.com/sites/carolinecenizalevine/2021/06/23/new-survey-shows-the-business-benefit-of-feeling-heard--5-ways-to-build-inclusive-teams/?sh=1ccf117d5f0c).
You are not alone.

The first exercise you need to do is to assure you are aligned with your company
and team values. Some questions from a book I just read may help you:

> > _Should we not evaluate our jobs according to how much they help us find

Reviewer: Maybe you want these as bullet points?

Author: Since it's a quote from a book I thought a markdown quote would be appropriate:
<img width="819" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2574275/166920633-3af990d7-7397-4032-a636-d6d61fc0d8c8.png">

Source:
https://deploy-preview-1783--objective-northcutt-37494c.netlify.app/blog/2022/04/22/what-to-do-if-you-dont-feel-heard-at-work/#conclusion

> meaning and love in life? Do our jobs help us learn more about the purpose of
> our lives? Do they develop our level of self-insight and self-awareness? How
> good are we at creating meaningfulness for our colleagues?_

_One Life: How we forgot to live meaningful lives_ by
**[Morten Albæk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morten_Alb%C3%A6k)**

This article tries to recollect some ideas and positive actions you can take to
try to make you feel heard at work through the art of being a good listener.
Take the initiative to dominate this art while being empathetic with the others:

- [Identify the problem/s](/blog/2022/04/22/what-to-do-if-you-dont-feel-heard-at-work/#identify-the-problems)
- [Choose your battles](/blog/2022/04/22/what-to-do-if-you-dont-feel-heard-at-work/#choose-your-battles)
- [Propose solutions with empathy](/blog/2022/04/22/what-to-do-if-you-dont-feel-heard-at-work/#propose-solutions-with-empathy)
- [Lead by example](/blog/2022/04/22/what-to-do-if-you-dont-feel-heard-at-work/#lead-by-example)

> We would love to hear your personal experience on this topic. Any tip or story

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We would love to hear your personal experience on this topic. Do you have any tip or story
```

twitter: oscard0m_
topic: company-culture
bio: 'Software Engineer'
og:
  image: /assets/images/posts/2022-04-22-what-to-do-if-you-dont-feel-heard-at-work/og-image.png
description:
  Oscar Dominguez writes to himself of the past and tries to make him realize
  that a better world is possible. There are companies where employees are
  listened to and their opinions are taken into consideration.
---

86%

That is the number of people who don't feel heard **fairly or equally** at their
organisation.

And nearly half (47%) claim that underrepresented voices remain undervalued by
their employers, according to [global research] conducted by [The Workforce
Institute] at [UKG] in 2021.

Many engineers feel they don't have room to share their ideas and opinions.
**Are you one of them**?

**How often do you feel your perspective is taken into account**? **And is this
as often as you’d like**?

[global research]:
  https://www.forbes.com/sites/carolinecenizalevine/2021/06/23/new-survey-shows-the-business-benefit-of-feeling-heard--5-ways-to-build-inclusive-teams/?sh=1ccf117d5f0c
[the workforce institute]: https://www.workforceinstitute.org/
[ukg]: https://www.ukg.com/

<!--break-->

> ![What to do if you don't feel heard at work illustration](/assets/images/posts/2022-04-22-what-to-do-if-you-dont-feel-heard-at-work/illustration.svg#full)

Author: > no, that's a layout thing but I wouldn't address that atm

Do you mean you would merge it as it looks right now?

> ![What to do if you don't feel heard at work illustration](/assets/images/posts/2022-04-22-what-to-do-if-you-dont-feel-heard-at-work/illustration.svg#full)

Author: > Yes – doesn't seem broken?

I would expect more space between the image and the text, not sure if there is an easy way to tweak that.

product and your company get benefit from it. Your company is paying you for
that, for your maximum potential. It’s a win-win!

If this is not happening, there is something wrong that needs to be fixed:

1. **Are you aligned with your company and team values?**
2. Is your vision of your **career path aligned with** the idea **your company**
   has in mind?

If the answer is yes, keep reading because there’s probably something you can do
about it.

If the answer is no, this probably means you need a change.

> Is there something I can do on my end? It’s the problem of others not
> listening to me, there’s nothing I can control.

Yes, you can. You can’t control what others do unless you have very good
hypnosis skills but you can decide to perceive this as a problem or not. What if
you try to take the initiative? Let’s show the rest how _The Art of Listening_
is and spread it to the world.

## Take initiative with empathy

I’m pretty sure you have already tried to give your opinion to improve a
feature, a process, a team ceremony... but nothing happened. No feedback, or
automatically rejected.

I know, it’s very frustrating and you got tired of it. Maybe you stopped trying

> it. The key question here is: Do you know why? Why you did not get feedback or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it. The key question here is: Do you know why? Why did you not get feedback or
```

why did it get rejected?

### Identify the problem/s

Let’s assume the best of the intentions from your teammates, the stakeholders,

> the company or whoever should be the one listening to you. Why he or she would

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the company or whoever should be the one listening to you. Why would he or she
```

You are not alone.

The first exercise you need to do is to assure you are aligned with your company
and team values. Some questions from a book I just read may help you:

> _Should we not evaluate our jobs according to how much they help us find
> meaning and love in life? Do our jobs help us learn more about the purpose of
> our lives? Do they develop our level of self-insight and self-awareness? How
> good are we at creating meaningfulness for our colleagues?_

_One Life: How we forgot to live meaningful lives_ by
**[Morten Albæk](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morten_Alb%C3%A6k)**

This article tries to recollect some ideas and positive actions you can take to
try to make you feel heard at work through the art of being a good listener.
Take the initiative to dominate this art while being empathetic with the others:

- [The art of listening](#the-art-of-listening)
- [Take initiative with empathy](#take-initiative-with-empathy)
  - [Identify the problem/s](#identify-the-problems)
  - [Choose your battles](#choose-your-battles)
  - [Propose solutions with empathy](#propose-solutions-with-empathy)

>   - [Lead by example](#lead-by-example)

Author: These links are using `target=_blank`, is there a way to make them without `target=_blank`?

Reviewer 2: Hm, not at the moment I'm afraid 😞 I think your best option is to not make them links (or where exactly in the [`generate-blog` lib](https://github.com/simplabs/simplabs.github.io/tree/master/lib/generate-blog) to change the code that sets `target="_blank"` (which we'd want to keep, just not for hash-links))

Author: Found a way to make them work 🥳 :

`/relative-path-of-the-article/#anchor-link`

https://github.com/simplabs/simplabs.github.io/blob/b9febd327f2ac56579c2cbd6bbad8b0870ac012a/lib/markdown-content/htmlize-markdown.js#L34-L38

> - [The art of listening](#the-art-of-listening)
> - [Take initiative with empathy](#take-initiative-with-empathy)
>   - [Identify the problem/s](#identify-the-problems)
>   - [Choose your battles](#choose-your-battles)
>   - [Propose solutions with empathy](#propose-solutions-with-empathy)
>   - [Lead by example](#lead-by-example)
> - [Conclusion](#conclusion)
> - [Resources](#resources)

Author: I only want to share this links but the auto-format is recognizing me a Table of contents. Not sure if it's my IDE or some lint rule for Markdown. Is there a way to bypass this?

```suggestion
  - [Identify the problem/s](#identify-the-problems)
  - [Choose your battles](#choose-your-battles)
  - [Propose solutions with empathy](#propose-solutions-with-empathy)
  - [Lead by example](#lead-by-example)
```

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what you mean – prettier should only change lists from `*` to `-` but that should have no effect on the generated HTML.

Author: With the fix of the anchor links this gets solved automatically
